Our text and comments focus on how Jehovah makes clear to anointed Christians that they've been chosen for heavenly life.
But when a Christian is anointed, does that mean that he or she automatically receives that reward?
Well, please look at the last sentence in the comments for today. It answers that question by stating,
so even though an anointed Christian has been called to go to heaven, he will get his reward only if he remains faithful.
Only if he remains faithful. And that principle applies to those of us with the earthly hope. Jehovah will reward us with life in his promised new world only if we remain faithful.
So let's consider the theme Jehovah rewards his faithful servants. How do we know that Jehovah wants to reward his faithful servants? How did he do so in the past?
And what are some rewards that we receive from our loving heavenly Father?
As one expression of his tender love for us, Jehovah takes the initiative to reward his faithful servants.
Let's read about that together. Hebrews chapter 11, please turn their Hebrews chapter 11, and notice the connection here between faith and Jehovah being a rewarder in verse 6.
Moreover, without faith, it is impossible to please God well for whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him.
So the more we love Jehovah, the stronger our faith becomes not only in the fact that he exists, but our faith is strengthened that Jehovah unfailingly rewards those whom he loves, those who are faithful, those who earnestly seek him.
Being a rewarder is an integral part of who Jehovah is and what he does.
Jesus highlighted that in a discussion with his disciples. Please turn with me to Matthew chapter 19. Let's read about it together.
Matthew 19, and in verse 27, notice this question raised by Peter, Matthew 19, 27.
Then Peter said in reply, look, we have left all things and followed you. What then will there be for us?
Jesus knew that Peter, Andrew, James, and John had left behind the fishing business in order to follow him.
So instead of viewing Peter's question negatively and rebuking him, Jesus told his disciples that they would be rewarded for their faithfulness, for their sacrifices.
Notice what he said, verse 28, Jesus said to them,
Truly I say to you in the recreation when a son of man sits down on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for the sake of my name will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit everlasting life.
So notice Jesus said his disciples would be rewarded not only in the future, but there would be present rewards.
The spiritual fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and children would be much more valuable than anything that the apostles had left behind.
What a reward.
Well, it's obvious from the scriptures that Jehovah wants to reward his faithful servants.
How did he do so in the past?
Well, one example we could think of is Joseph.
As we know, when he was just seventeen years old, his life turned completely upside down.
Out of jealousy, his brothers sold him into slavery, and then as a result of the treachery of his master's wife, he found himself in the situation we see on our screens.
In an Egyptian prison, he endured years of unjust imprisonment.
During that time, would he feel cut off from his reward or would he remain faithful?
Let's read about it together.
Please turn with me to Genesis, chapter 39.
Genesis 39.
And notice what happened with Joseph in verses 21 through 23.
But Jehovah continued with Joseph and kept showing loyal love to him and granting him favor in the eyes of the chief officer of the prison.
So the chief officer of the prison put Joseph in charge of all the prisoners in the prison.
And everything that they were doing there, he was the one having it done.
The chief officer of the prison was looking after absolutely nothing that was in Joseph's care.
For Jehovah was with Joseph and Jehovah made whatever he did successful.
So evidently, Joseph didn't give into discouragement.
He did his work the best he could and he focused on his relationship with Jehovah.
As we see in this image, Jehovah rewarded him even in this difficult situation.
Years later, Pharaoh released Joseph from prison and he made this humble slave, the second ruler in all of Egypt.
Another reward for Joseph's faithfulness.
Did Joseph recognize Jehovah as his rewarder?
Well, turned to chapter 41 and notice verses 51 and 52.
41, 51, 52.
Joseph named the first born Manasseh.
For he said, God has made me forget all my troubles and all the house of my father.
And he named the second one Ephraim.
For he said, God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.
So yes, Joseph recognized it was Jehovah who rewarded him.
But Joseph's example can help us if we had a difficult childhood.
If we're going through a difficult time right now, we too can remain faithful.
We can stay contented and we can persevere.
If we do, Jehovah will reward us now and in the future.
The key is to remain faithful.
Well, that brings us to our final point.
What are some rewards we receive from our loving God?
There are so many.
Let's mention just a few.
Perhaps we'll start with just a few present rewards.
I thought our book organized to do Jehovah's will describes beautifully one reward.
Notice how it put it.
All who are associated with the congregation of God today can rejoice in the rich spiritual estate that Jehovah's given to his people.
Our spiritual pastures are indeed lush and we have an abundance of refreshing waters of truth.
Yes, we enjoy that spiritual estate, don't we?
Jehovah also rewards us now by letting us be part of a loving brotherhood,
spiritual fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and children.
That's similar to the reward that Jesus mentioned to his disciples.
And one final present reward.
Our faithfulness is rewarded with the incomparable blessings of peace of mind, contentment, and happiness.
One sister stated,
I cannot thank Jehovah enough for helping me with my worries and for being at my side each day.
The world out there is chaotic and bleak.
But as I work closely with Jehovah, I feel secure in his arms.
Whenever I make personal sacrifices for him, he gives me back a hundredfold in blessings.
This sister could see her rewarder.
And what about our future rewards?
Well, if Spirit anointed Christians remained faithful, 2 Timothy 4, 7, and 8 mentions
that they'll receive the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give as a reward.
And what about those of us with an earthly hope?
We eagerly anticipate the reward of everlasting life on a paradise earth
when the words of Isaiah 32-17 will be fulfilled that speak about peace
and lasting tranquility and security.
The awake one stated,
healthy people under perfect conditions will be able to produce whatever is needed to make life enjoyable.
Yes, Jehovah delights to reward his faithful servants now, and he'll do so in the future.
So what have we considered?
How can we be sure that Jehovah wants to reward his faithful servants?
Well, texts such as Hebrews 11-6 and Matthew 1927-29 confirm
that Jehovah takes the initiative to reward his faithful servants.
How did he do so in the past?
As an example, we considered the example of Joseph.
Jehovah rewarded his faith during his trial and afterwards.
And what are some rewards we receive from our loving God?
He's rewarding our rich spiritual estate.
He allows us to be part of that international brotherhood
and he provides us peace of mind, contentment, and happiness.
And what future rewards we look forward to enjoying,
life in the heavens for the anointed
and everlasting life here on the earth for the other sheep.
How grateful we are that Jehovah rewards his faithful servants.